---
title: "Why Jekyll over Wordpress?"
layout: post
date: 2020-06-09 00:01
tag: Jekyll
blog: true
draft: false
author: Aadeshmirajkar
summary: "Why Jekyll"
permalink: why-jekyll
---

Initially, when I came to know about the blogging world I knew very few blogging sites mainly WordPress and blogger. Back then I was quite satisfied with my website which was running on Wordpress and was built using quite powerful plugins.

But, ultimately WordPress served no purpose as it did previously. The main issue with WordPress is its complex code and slow running time because of a lot of plugins. And, WordPress is prone to many hacks.

I had been thinking about migration for a while as my previous site was looking rather dated. Also, I needed a lot more on my site just than a blog section. Later on, I came across a site which was built using <a target="_blank" href="https://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a> by one of my friends and I was immediately drawn to the overall theme and design of the site, and after a discussion with him, I had left with no option but to try it. The website that you are currently reading this blog from is entirely built using Jekyll.


---

<h2>What is Jekyll?</h2>
<ul>
	<li>Jekyll is open source and has many clean designs available for it</li>
	<li>It is a tool that transforms your plain text into static websites</li>
	<li>No more databases, comment moderation and just your content</li>
	<li>Markdown, HTML & CSS go in and static sites come out ready for deployment</li>
</ul>

---

<h2>Why Jekyll?</h2>
<ul>
	<li>No complex coding</li>
	<li>Open source</li>
	<li>Loads faster</li>
	<li>Plain text formatting</li>
	<li>Plenty of themes to choose from</li>
	<li>Uses <a target="_blank" href="https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/2.11.x/">Jinja</a> as a templating engine</li>
	<li>Most important it goes well with <a target="_blank" href="https://pages.github.com/">Github-Pages</a></li>
</ul>